## Bitcoin Classic Roadmap 2016/2017

The Bitcoin Classic team will work to realize Satoshi’s vision of making
Bitcoin scale into a global peer-to-peer cash system, not merely a
settlement network. We believe on-chain scaling is crucial for the long
term health of Bitcoin. On-chain scaling maximizes transaction volume,
whose fees are needed to replace miner rewards on the medium to long term
scale.

Our preferred strategy for on-chain scaling is move the control over the
block size from the software developers to the open market. The maximum
size hardcoded in the protocol should be replaced with one where
block-creators (miners) choose the size based on what the market as a whole
indicates they need. The indicators are acceptable block size on one side
and transaction backlogs on the other.

Bitcoin Classic will also work to implement further strategies, like
optimistic mining, to make the blockchain grow both safe and responsible in
size and number of users.


In research done by independent parties we gained insight into the growth
difficulties to be expected over the next years. The main thing we learned
is that the difficulties would not be relevant for quite some time of normal
growth of the Bitcoin userbase. This gives us some breathing room to share
the focus between growth innovations and the long overdue maintenance and
forward looking cleanups.

### Focus areas

##### Basic scaling of Bitcoin

* We will work on strategies to allow the market to decide on a block size
  that is healthy for individual players and remove the central-planned
  maximum block size.
* We will work with miners and other parties in Bitcoin to come up with a
  way to do a safe and predictable protocol upgrade which is required to
  remove the current 1MB maximum block size.
* We will implement optimistic mining. A strategy where a miner sends out a
  block-header first and the block itself afterwards. Other miners will be
  able to start mining as soon as they get the first part removing many
  attack vectors and risks associated with bigger blocks.

##### Fix problems in the Bitcoin protocol

* We will work on Flexible Transactions, a new transaction format that can
  live side by side with the current one but solves a lot of technical
  debt. The major ones it solves are transaction-malleability and the
  quadratic hashing problem.

##### Codebase cleanliness

Bitcoin Classic inherited its codebase and the quality of the architecture
and overall design is far below our standards. In this roadmap we want to
work on this with the goal that the quality-of-live for developers wanting
to contribute will go up.

* Put to work engineering best-practices and improve on code-quality.
* Introduce a new network-manager that will live side-by-side to the
  current network stack, but have many features and a lock-free design.
* Use the new network manager to provide a better RPC solution, one that
  is much faster and allows new features like remote-logging and monitoring.
* Introduce an Application class which is a singleton and a single-point of
  entry for the ongoing work to remove most of the global variables. Global
  variables are a technical debt we want to remove.

